The other one that some of
you may have heard about, but
it's a little bit rare is
the Provide/Inject API.
And so the way this works is inside of
our component, you can actually call this
provide function that basically think
of it really like a data store.
In that you are providing this
object that provides properties to
this child component that will
eventually receive the data.
And so you might be thinking well,
how is this different from props?
The thing about provide
inject is that with props,
we have to focus on parent
child relationship, right.
So, the moment you have a great grandchild
what you'll find is you'll have to if you
did the prop solution, you'd have
to do the prop strain basically.
Parent will have to pass it to the child,
which will pass it to the great grandchild
will then pass it to the great grandchild.
And that's not a great way to mitigate
code, right, because now you basically
created this dependency and
it's just not the best solution.
So provide inject on the other hand,
well basically says,
regardless of where you are inside of the
child component tree inject these things.
So you'll see here that inside of this
child component that's receiving all
these properties it takes and
you basically define an inject property.
And then you define what
you're going to receive.
And so this is pretty cool because what
this allows you to do is theoretically,
you can have this great, great, great,
great grandparent component that might
define like certain prop options or
whatnot.
And so as you can see in this example,
right,
typically this component
has a prop of option key.
But the default value we can actually
have that be injected from whatever great
grandparent that we care about.
And so when you think of that,
you're probably thinking like, wow,
this is pretty cool.
Like this allow me to just shoot
data all over my application.
So it's true that as far as it's
pretty easy to share, data and
methods with descendants, and
it skips over that prop strain.
And more importantly, we can see that like
components, unlike the mixins example,
components can actually choose
what they want to receive.
So as we saw that mixins earlier will
just accept whatever is provided to them.
And so while this is really cool,
the problem is that there
are definitely cons to this.
And why it's not seen as pervasively
through production apps.
And that's because like in Vue 2, for
example, there are certain reactivity
caveats when it comes to what
is reactive and what isn't.
And so this makes it fairly complex to
utilize in a Vue 2 app successfully.
There are helper libraries to help
make sure that everything's reactive.
I recommend doing your
own research on that,
cuz again that can be a whole topic in and
of itself.
In Vue 3 some of the reactivity
caveats have been solved.
But again this just makes for
just an additional learning curve for
how it works.
But within architecturally speaking,
what this does is this creates a tight
relationship now between
these two components.
That is honestly not immediately a parent.
In the slides I showed you right.
If we go back,
if you're looking at this component,
you actually really have no
idea where this is coming from.
And so if you start utilizing this
technique too much or you've rely on it,
you'll find yourself just randomly,
you'll have a series of injected keys.
Like values without really any
sense of where it's coming from.
And so then you're relying
on the developer to sort of
be consistent with how
you named properties.
Which isn't really resilient, right.
Especially on an application that scales.
And so you end up suffering from a lot of
what mixin suffer from as far as it's hard
to figure out where
things are coming from.
And there's not but you've also
inadvertently created this tight
relationship because if you're
relying on this injected value.
The moment this component is taken
out of context, it's gonna break,
because it has some dependency.
And so, as far as using provide inject
if you do feel like there is
a good basically [COUGH].
If there's a good use case for provide
inject, following the naming convention we
talked about earlier where you're
tightly coupling the naming.
So again todo lists todo this item.
Imagine if todo list is providing
something that we want to inject
into a component inside of
the todo component folder.
Then you should make sure that it's
prepended with that accordingly so
that if in todo list item name,
there's an injection there.
That at the bare minimum
there is that hierarchy and
relationship between the two so
that at least it's somewhat communicated.
So that's something to consider when
it comes to using provide inject.
And so as just another reminder
is that provide an inject it's
really primarily for
advanced plug-in component library usage.
And so generally, like I said there
are probably better techniques
than provide inject to actually share
functionality across your application.
But I know that when people get to
enterprise level apps that oftentimes
they'll look for, these little techniques.
And so this is why I thought it was
important to share with you the pros and
cons with it so
that you can do with it, what you will.
But I would say that generally speaking,
if you're reaching for provide inject.
Then there's a really good chance that
there probably is a better way of doing
what you wanna do.
Whether it's through view acts like state
management, or there's probably a better
standard that sort of removes a lot of
the caveats that come with provide inject.